Quantitative data consists of numeric values. Data elements whose values come from counting or measuring are quantitative.

Qualitative data consists of frequent text values. Data elements whose values describe characteristics, traits, 
and attitudes are all qualitative.

discrete data is useful when you have things you want to count. For example, a veterinary clinic may be interested in the 
number of dogs and cats under its care.

Qualitative data is discrete, but quantitative data can be either discrete or continuous data. For example, age is a continuous variable, 
but you may treat a person's age in years as discrete. A good rule of thumb is that discrete applies when counting while continuous 
applies when measuring.

Dimensional modeling organizes data into fact tables and dimension tables. Fact tables store measurement data that is of interest to a 
business. Dimensional data contains groupings of individual attributes about a given subject.

categorical data
Animal Type is a good example of categorical data.

Structured Data
Tabular data is structured data, with values stored in a consistent, defined manner, organized into columns and rows. Data is consistent 
when all entries in a column contain the same type of value

Unstructured Data
Unstructured data is qualitative, describing the characteristics of an event or an object. Images, phrases, audio or video recordings, 
and descriptive text are all examples of unstructured data. There is very little that is common about different kinds of unstructured 
data. Since the data is highly variable, its organizational and storage needs are different from structured data. Unstructured data 
also represents a significant opportunity. A Forbes study shows that over 90 percent of businesses need to manage and derive value 
from unstructured data.

Semi-Structured Data
Semi-structured data is data that has structure and that is not tabular. Email is a well-known example of semi-structured data. 
Every email message has structural components, including recipient, sender, subject, date, and time. However, the body of an email is 
unstructured text, while attachments could be anything type of file.

Text Files
Text files are one of the most commonly used data file formats. As the name implies, they consist of plain text and are limited in 
scope to alphanumeric data. One of the reasons text files are so widely adopted is their ability to be opened regardless of platform 
or operating system without needing a proprietary piece of software. Whether you are using a Microsoft Windows desktop, an Apple 
MacBook, or a Linux server, you can easily open a text file. Text files are also commonly referred to as flat files.

 When a file is comma-delimited, it is known as a comma-separated values (CSV) file. Similarly, when a file is tab-delimited, 
it is called a tab-separated values (TSV) file.

JavaScript Object Notation
JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is an open standard file format, designed to add structure to a text file without incurring 
significant overhead. One of its design principles is that JSON is easily readable by people and easily parsed by modern programming 
languages. Languages such as Python, R, and Go have libraries containing functions that facilitate reading and writing JSON files.

Extensible Markup Language (XML)
Extensible Markup Language (XML) is a markup language that facilitates structuring data in a text file. While conceptually similar to 
JSON, XML incurs more overhead because it makes extensive use of tags. Tags describe a data element and enclose each value for each 
data element. While these tags help readability, they add a significant amount of overhead.

HyperText Markup Language (HTML)
HyperText Markup Language (HTML) is a markup language for documents designed to be displayed in a web browser. HTML pages serve as the 
foundation for how people interact with the World Wide Web. Similar to XML, HTML is a tag-based language.
